

What are the roles and responsibilities of an SDET?
SDET should able to perform Test Automation and setting up frameworks on multiple application platforms like Web, Mobile, and Desktop.
Investigate customer problems referred by the technical support team.
Create & manage bug reports and communicate with the team.
Able to build different test scenarios and acceptance tests.
SDET needs to handle technical communications with Partners to understand client’s systems or APIs.
SDET also work with deployments teams and resolving any level issues for the system.
SDET should also able to set up, maintain, and operate test automation frameworks.
The above are key skills and responsibilities of SDET. They may vary with different companies.

Salary
The salary structure of a SDET varies from company to company. The average annual salary for a Software Development Engineer in Test (SDET) is ₹6,92,692 in India and $74,291 in the USA.

An SDET is also given health insurance, gratuity, and other perks.

Typical Work Day
On a daily basis, you will be busy understanding project documents, creating & executing test cases, reporting, and testing bugs. You will also put your inputs to designing team, suggest development team and other team building activities.

Career Progression
Your career progression as a SDET in typical CMMI level 5 company will look like following but will vary from company to company

SDET (Fresher) => Sr. SDET (2-3 years’ experience) => SDET Team Coordinator (5-8 years’ experience> =>SDET Manager (8+ years’ experience)

Conclusion
A SDET professional is a mix of developer as well as a tester who has exposure to project management. This all in one type of skill set make the SDET jobs more challenging and highly demanding in the current market.


Benefits of SDET professional:

SDETs professionals can automate the acceptance test by leveraging their coding skills
These professionals deal with end users or customers and their experiences. They already possessed engineering skills so they can also think like a developer.
Extensive code coverage through unit testing
Can build, deploy, run & manage the application individually
Influence the development, program management, & design teams on technical implementation and user scenarios
